all right so we're rolling into the year
2020 and one of the laptop trends that
we've seen over the past few years is
that high performance devices are
getting thinner and lighter and just
more portable which is great I think
that's what people have been wanting so
it's great that laptop manufacturers and
technology has allowed us to make these
relatively portable devices yet still
retaining great performance out of them
but there are still a lot of companies
out there that make these big like super
thick desktop replacement thick boy
devices so companies like Acer Asus MSI
and this is one made by gigabyte this is
the ars 17 these are significantly
bigger than like a regular laptop I say
regular but just like the kind of trendy
thin and light performance machines and
these tend to be better performing than
thin and light devices but I always
thought this like a month ago and every
time I ran a benchmark and just kind of
tested it out I always felt like yes it
was better but is it really worth it
like does the extra weight and size
actually provide a better experience
than something that isn't so big and
heavy and that's what this video is
about so to give this some context
I guess we'll talk about this laptop
real briefly there's two things in the
AR 17 that make it unique the first is
the keyboard it's one of the better
maybe even the best mechanical keyboard
I've seen in a laptop and in order to
implement a keyboard like this you do
need a device that's relatively thick
and the other thing that makes this
device special is its performance it is
a very very powerful laptop in fact this
is the best performing laptop that I've
tested this year except for that weird
Alienware area 51 that used the desktop
components inside a laptop chassis but
when it comes to just regular laptop
components this is the fastest one I've
seen this year so the keyboard is
definitely unique I've tried a lot of
the mechanical keyboards that are
available on laptops and the vast
majority of them are cool and they're
like kind of fun to play with and fun to
try but none of them really stuck out as
being a keyboard that I would actually
want in my personal device this one is
different
I really like how the keys feel and how
it
but you have to get used to how the
entire keyboard is sunken in a little
bit so if you look at how the keys sit
relative to the palm rest the whole
keyboard is sunken in like a traditional
laptop keyboard they have to do this so
that the keys don't punch into the
screen when you've closed the lid and I
feel like this positioning takes away
from that mechanical keyboard feel but
the overall keyboard is clicky and has a
good tactile response when you press the
keys in terms of performance so this
machine is running the 99 80 HK which is
unlocked and the r-tx 20 80 it is
incredibly powerful now to achieve that
kind of performance I had to set this
computer to the max possible settings
and the max possible forints and the
fans have to be cranked up to this it is
very loud to the point where if you're
playing games you actually have to have
your headphones like slightly louder
than normal to drown out the fan noise
now you don't have to play your games
and you don't have to have the system at
that kind of fan noise but that's what
it takes to get the most out of this
particular laptop so this kind of fan
noise is not unique to the ars 17 a lot
of the thick boy performance laptops
with overclockable CPUs and really
powerful GPUs require really loud fans
to hit that kind of performance and it
just begs the question of is it worth it
like are the gains that you get building
a system like this or purchasing a
system like this really worth it over
something that's just much more modest
and I actually think that these big-boy
laptops are starting to become not
really worth their investment like these
things are twice as loud maybe even
three times as loud and they're twice as
thick and you're certainly not getting
double the performance of something
that's a lot thinner and lighter
manufacturers are getting better at
cooling thin and light laptops properly
and some companies are even under
vaulting their CPUs right out of the
factories you just get better
temperatures from day one and it's just
the idea of a big thick laptop has just
it's become less appealing to me over
the years is the gains that you get from
this are not as prominent as they used
to be now you do get a way better port
selections you're getting three you
species
Ethernet an SD card slot you're just
getting all the ports but it comes at a
pretty significant weight increase over
something like this now I know a lot of
my audience are interested in these
bigger and more powerful devices and
it's obviously not for me but for the
people that do have a preference for
these bigger heavier machines what is it
that you do with it like I'm so
interested to know what it is that you
guys are drawn to in these more powerful
machines ok the screen it's a 17 inch
screen it is dimmer than some of the
other 17 inch screens we've seen on this
channel but it is more color accurate if
that's important to you but it's still a
1080p screen so which ties into the
whole thing about performance like these
are still 1080p screens I don't feel
like the extra kick and performance that
these systems provide really translates
that nicely in terms of just actual
performance in games unless you're
someone that plays like graphically
intense open-world games like witcher 3
the internals are easy to get to you
have access to your two ram slots your
three drives your Wi-Fi card and you can
see the battery that gives a roughly 4
hour battery life which is not great but
in a system of this size in this calibre
it's kind of expected but overall this
system is very powerful it is literally
the most powerful laptop based device
that i've had on my channel this year
but it is quite heavy and very loud when
you're trying to get the best possible
performance also it requires 2 AC
adapters to achieve that best
performance you can run this system off
of one AC adapter but doesn't clock
nearly as high so you have to adopt the
double adapter life but my advice is
that if you're interested in these big
thick boy laptops check out these
thinner ones first and you just get like
80 85 percent of the performance for
like half the weight
so yeah just be aware of what of what
the what the market is like if you're
interested in the big guys alright hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs if
you liked it subs have you loved it see
you guys next time